content/posts/20200605-facebook.md, before:

---
author: Lewis Denham-Parry
categories:
- personal
- facebook
- digital
date: 2020-06-05T09:00:00Z
description: ""
draft: false
slug: facebook
tags:
- personal
- update
title: facebook
aliases:
    - "/facebook/"
---

A number of factors have resulted in me deciding to delete some Social Media accounts:

## Time

I'm finding that I'm losing time in the day to a number of tasks.  Having a young family and a job can be difficult to manage and ultimately have me wishing for more hours in the day and letting someone down.  I used to enjoy having *commute* time between home and the office to catch up on tasks but that has gone since *COVID*.  Working on a number of projects with context switching is also causing me to become distracted and not functioning as well as I'd like to both at home and in work.

I removed the Facebook app off my phone 6 months ago, but found myself going back to it during the day.  The updates I received related to people I no longer engage with on a day to day basis or promoting user groups I had no interest in joining.

This was the hardest blocker for me, am I closing the door to a number of relationships by shutting it down.  Maybe.  The counter argument for me is that I'll spend less time thinking about past relationships and focus on the ones I have on a daily basis.

This also became apparent from a Mental Health Day that we had at [Control Plane](https://control-plane.io) this week, and [this interview with Cai Newport](https://dailystoic.com/cal-newport-interview/) was shared.  I'm ready to jump ship.

## Politics

Not much to add here but other peoples opinions including people leaving Facebook in protest of decisions being made by the board.

- [Facebook employees hold virtual walkout over Mark Zuckerberg's refusal to act against Trump](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/jun/01/facebook-workers-rebel-mark-zuckerberg-donald-trump)

## The Price of Free Services

If something is free, then you're paying for it elsewhere.  I'm paying for storage on platforms to store photos and any other digital media that matters to me so I don't need a timeline to share it.  Also, the photos I want to share nowadays are more personal than *drunk* nights out that I used to have.  And theres nothing wrong with drunk nights out where we used to look at the photos the morning after the night before, but when I'm in bed at 10pm it isn't a high priority any more.

## The Process

I've heard horror stories of shutting down an account taking days if not weeks.  I managed to get a backup of my personal data and delete the account within 30 minutes.  Each stage is trying to prevent you from continuing that further influenced for me to shut down the account.

- [Download your information](https://www.facebook.com/dyi/)
  - Select what you want to download
  - A file is created, an email and a notification become available within Facebook
  - It took less than 5 minutes to create the image download file
  - It took around 10 minutes to create the file that has all the Facebook content
- [Delete your account](https://www.facebook.com/deactivate_delete_account)
  - Make sure the data has been downloaded
  - This part feels like leaving / unsubscribing from any service
  - Deleted all the old Facebook pages that I created
    - Transferred ownership to others if page is still active
  - Deleted the apps that I have created on Facebook
- 30 days
  - I have 30 days to reactivate my account

And thats it.

Commit message:

docs: update introduction and exit for facebook

content/posts/20200605-facebook.md, after:

---
author: Lewis Denham-Parry
categories:
- personal
- facebook
- digital
date: 2020-06-05T09:00:00Z
description: ""
draft: false
slug: facebook
tags:
- personal
- update
title: facebook
aliases:
    - "/facebook/"
---

A number of factors have resulted in me deciding to delete my [Facebook](https://facebook.com) account.

## Time

I'm finding that I'm losing time in the day to a number of tasks.  Having a young family and a job can be difficult to manage and ultimately have me wishing for more hours in the day and letting someone down.  I used to enjoy having *commute* time between home and the office to catch up on tasks but that has gone since *COVID*.  Working on a number of projects with context switching is also causing me to become distracted and not functioning as well as I'd like to both at home and in work.

I removed the Facebook app off my phone 6 months ago, but found myself going back to it during the day.  The updates I received related to people I no longer engage with on a day to day basis or promoting user groups I had no interest in joining.

This was the hardest blocker for me, am I closing the door to a number of relationships by shutting it down.  Maybe.  The counter argument for me is that I'll spend less time thinking about past relationships and focus on the ones I have on a daily basis.

This also became apparent from a Mental Health Day that we had at [Control Plane](https://control-plane.io) this week, and [this interview with Cai Newport](https://dailystoic.com/cal-newport-interview/) was shared.  I'm ready to jump ship.

## Politics

Not much to add here but other peoples opinions including people leaving Facebook in protest of decisions being made by the board.

- [Facebook employees hold virtual walkout over Mark Zuckerberg's refusal to act against Trump](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2020/jun/01/facebook-workers-rebel-mark-zuckerberg-donald-trump)

## The Price of Free Services

If something is free, then you're paying for it elsewhere.  I'm paying for storage on platforms to store photos and any other digital media that matters to me so I don't need a timeline to share it.  Also, the photos I want to share nowadays are more personal than *drunk* nights out that I used to have.  And theres nothing wrong with drunk nights out where we used to look at the photos the morning after the night before, but when I'm in bed at 10pm it isn't a high priority any more.

## The Process

I've heard horror stories of shutting down an account taking days if not weeks.  I managed to get a backup of my personal data and delete the account within 30 minutes.  Each stage is trying to prevent you from continuing that further influenced for me to shut down the account.

- [Download your information](https://www.facebook.com/dyi/)
  - Select what you want to download
  - A file is created, an email and a notification become available within Facebook
  - It took less than 5 minutes to create the image download file
  - It took around 10 minutes to create the file that has all the Facebook content
- [Delete your account](https://www.facebook.com/deactivate_delete_account)
  - Make sure the data has been downloaded
  - This part feels like leaving / unsubscribing from any service
  - Deleted all the old Facebook pages that I created
    - Transferred ownership to others if page is still active
  - Deleted the apps that I have created on Facebook
- 30 days
  - I have 30 days to reactivate my account

And thats it.  Currently the only social media account I'm looking to keep is my [twitter](https://twitter.com/denhamparry) account but going to take this a week at a time to ensure I have no regrets.
