---
author: Lewis Denham-Parry
categories:
- personal
- minimalism
date: 2020-06-05T09:00:00Z
description: ""
draft: false
slug: journal
tags:
- personal
- journal
title: Journal
aliases:
    - "/journal/"
---

From the [last post](https://denhamparry.co.uk/facebook), I've been looking at ways to improve my personal time management.  The previous post was in regards to cutting out noise from my day to day life.  Even though the app was deleted off my phone, I found myself going back to it throughout the day for updates I didn't want.

Since then, I've been trying to gain focus of my thoughts.  When on a specific task, I want the task to have my full concentration.  If this is at home then I'm becoming more connected with my family.  If its at work, I should be producing the best work that I can in the most efficient time possible.  The focus on all of this is for the time saved.

I've done this a number of times before.  I read a method from one of [Tim Ferriss](https://tim.blog/)'s books when trying to improve my mental health and wrote a daily note about what I did yesterday, what I'm doing today and what I want to achieve.  This helped in the short term, but dropped off for whatever reason.

When working at a new job, I usually create a private [git](https://git-scm.com/) repository that I use to manage everything from joining documentation, markdown files for day to day notes to exiting the company.  I still use this but find that I drop my connectivity during the middle lifecycle of the job, its mainly managed when joining and leaving.  This is focused on my job too, so the notes I make are there to be reviewed and for work related topics only.

The latest concept for having a journal is to clear the thoughts in my head.  This could be from being frustrated because of something thats happened, to just working a number of hours on a task that felt like 5 minutes.  This information isn't really of interest to anyone else, some of it may be personal and would be uncomfortable for it to be distributed, but none the less, I don't want it taking space in my mind.

For the last couple of weeks, I've been using [journal](https://journal.cloud).  3 or 4 times a day, I catch up from my last post documenting and reviewing what I have done.  I've found its helping with my personal relationships and reminding me of events that have passed during the day.  I reflect on decisions made and think if I would have handled aspects of those decisions differently.  By the end of the post, I have a clear mind to go into the next task.

Other than looking at the previous post to remember where I dropped off last, I've yet to review any more of the posts.  There is little value to them, other than pride if someone were to review them, but its good to have the feeling that they are documented somewhere else.

Why not a pen and paper?  I have a number of [Moleskin](https://gb.moleskine.com/en/classic/classic-collection/020101) notebooks from conferences past that I use for notes during the day.  These notes are more short term and actionable than what I journal.  The other bonus of using a keyboard is that I get to further practice touch typing and there is a mobile app that I can use on my phone.

To close, the irony of putting more time and effort into reviewing and documenting everything that I've done in the day doesn't add a further burden to my daily workload as much as empowers me to focus on what I'm doing at that moment in time and to review later in the day.
